Now let's see how to add metadata to the Product Catalog PDF.
You will see how to set XMPMetadata using the XMPMetadata class,
also set metadata to product images that are in the form
of PDImageXObjects using XML file, and finally,
see what it takes to set metadata using the PDDocumentInformation class as well.
First,
you will need to open the pom.xml and add the XMPBox
dependency as we are going to set XMPMetadata to the
document in the first part of the demo.
Back in the ProductCatalog class, I've added a method,
setXMPMetadata, and loaded the ProductCatalog PDF document.
In a PDF document,
metadata can be associated with a few common object
types like the PDDocumentCatalog, PDPage,
and PDXObject.
Let's add metadata to the PDDocumentCatalog object of the PDF document.
They'll appear under Document Properties in the Description tab,
like this, for example, if you open the document using Adobe Acrobat Reader.
However,
it should also be noted that there is no guarantee that all
PDF documents will have all possible metadata properties as
some of them are optional.
So let's set some common metadata properties to the
PDDocumentCatalog of the ProductCatalog PDF.
To do this, first,
you should get the document catalog object of the PDF document by calling the
getDocumentCatalog method on the document object catalog.
Let's assign it to a reference variable, like this.
Next, using the XMPMetadata class,
create a metadata object by calling the createXMPMetadata method.
Then, using the XMPMetadata object,
it is possible to set the properties that you saw earlier like the title,
producer, created date, modified date, etc.
These properties belong to different schemas.
So in the XMPMetadata object metadata,
you can create and add an XMPBasicSchema object where
you can set a few of the properties.
So call the createAndAddXMPBasicSchema method on the metadata object,
and you will get an XMPBasicSchema object in return.
And to this schema, you can set the create date and modify date.
Let's create a Calendar object date,
then call setCreateDate method on the basicSchema,
passing in the date, call the setModifyDate method,
passing in the date.
Now, if you want to add some keywords,
using which it would be possible to search for the document,
you can do so by adding them to the AdobePDFSchema,
so call the createAndAddAdobePDFSchema method on the metadata object,
which will give you this AdobePDFScheme object.
And to it, you can set the keywords, like this.
Let's also set a few more properties like title, author, and the subject.
These properties should be added to a schema called DublinCoreSchema.
Call createAndAddDublinCoreSchema method on the XMPMetadata object,
metadata, and you will get a DublinCoreSchema object in return.
Now, to it, set the title.
To set the author, call the addCreator method on the schema.
And to set the subject, call the setDescription method.
Now this example metadata that you set needs to be attached to PDMetadata
object that represents the metadata of a PDF document in PDFBox.
To do that, you can use the importXMPMetadata method of the PDMetadata object.
As you can see, this method accepts the XMPMetadata in the form of a byte array.
So to convert the XMPMetadata to a byte stream, you should serialize it.
To do this, you can use the XMPSerializer of XMPBox,
so create a new object of it,
and you'll also need to define a new ByteArrayOutputStream object,
then call the serialize method of the serializer,
passing in the XMPMetadata, the ByteArrayOutputStream,
and just passing false for the last parameter.
False indicates that the XMP packet header will not be included in
the XML document for the serialized XMPMetadata.
Now,
get the PDMetadata of the ProductCatalog document and import the
XMPMetadata to it by calling the importXMPMetadata method on it,
passing in the serialized XMPMetadata in the form of a byte array.
Finally, set the metadata to the PDDocumentCatalog object that you got earlier,
docCat, by calling its setMetadata method,
passing in the pdMetadata object. Now, remember to save the document, call
the method in the main class, and run the application.
Then if you go to Properties of the PDF document in Adobe Acrobat Reader, you should see the metadata that you set, like this.